P art 1 (40 True/False Questions)
1. (T/F) During a point, any player can call a team timeout.
Answer: False, only the player with the disc in their hands can call a team timeout during a point. However, any player on the injured player's team can can call an injury timeout

2. (T/F) In between points, any player or coach can call a team timeout.
Answer: True

3. (T/F) If play is stopped (time outs/discussion of a call) you should “hand check” the disc by having the defensive player tap the disc, to begin playing again.
Answer: True. If there is no one by you, you don’t have to hand check it in, and can instead self check it, but only after verbally confirming with a defender their team is ready. Otherwise, you should always hand check it in.

4. (T/F) If the disc is rolling on a pull, you can kick the disc to move it forward.
Answer: False, you may stop the movement of a roll, but should not advance the disc in any direction

5. (T/F) Two adjacent players who simultaneously come into the same area that was previously unoccupied, causing contact is not in itself a foul.
Answer: True

6. (T/F) Due to Principle of Verticality, no one can jump above you to attempt to D a disc.
Answer: False. Verticality says that a player is entitled to jumping in the space directly above them. So, no player can hold you down, push off of you, or fall down onto you, in such a way that you are not able to try to jump. However, if the play has already had its outcome determined (such as a player has already stopped rotation and secured a catch) subsequent contact does not violate verticality.

7. (T/F) If you catch a disc and then get pushed out of bounds by an opposing player while in the air, it is a turnover.
Answer: False. This is a force-out foul. If uncontested, play resumes at the spot you would have caught the disc, after a hand check, or is a score if in the endzone. If contested, it goes back to the thrower.

8. (T/F) If the disc goes out of bounds, the offensive player with the disc does not need to tap the disc on the ground to continue play.
Answer: False. A player should always tap it in on the ground if moving a live disc to the front of the endzone after a turn, to the sideline after going out of bounds, or to the brick mark or center of the field after a pull, in order to put it into play. You do not need to hand check in these situations.

9. (T/F) For a “Fast Count” call, play must stop.
Answer: False. First time marking violations do not stop play, but the marker must drop the stall count two, and correct the infraction. Subsequent marking violations during the same stall count, or not correctly adjusting the count and fixing the infraction, are also violations, which stop play and stall count goes to zero.

10. (T/F) You always have to say the word “stall” before you begin stalling your opponent. ie "Stall 1, 2, 3,..."
Answer: True

11. (T/F) The perimeter line of a field is in bounds (in other words, if you catch a disc and land on the line, you are in bounds).
Answer: False. The line is out of bounds. If your first point of contact after securing the catch is on the line, it is a turnover (unless force out rule applies)

12. (T/F) If a disc is turned in the end zone, the other team has to always bring the disc up to the goal line to start play.
Answer: False. If the disc has been turned over in the endzone the team newly on offense is defending, that team, may put the disc into play where it is, or walk it to the front of the endzone, but may not put it into play any place in between. If a pivot is originally set where the disc landed, the offensive player must stick to that decision, and cannot chose to change their mind and now take it to the line. That would be a travel and a violation, stopping play until the player returns to where he should be and checks the disc in with a hand check. If the disc is turned in the endzone the team newly on offense is attacking, they must always bring the disc out.

13. (T/F) You must hand check the disc to resume play after a timeout.
Answer: True. If there is no defender placed near you, the offensive player must self check after verbally confirming with a player of the opposing team that the defense is ready. 

14. (T/F) When receiving the “pull,” all players on the receiving team can be anywhere in the end zone.
Answer: False. The toes of each player on the receiving team should be on the endzone line.

15. (T/F) When “pulling,” the pulling team can be anywhere in the end zone.
Answer: True

16. (T/F) If you pre-stall, you have to give notice to the offensive player before doing it by counting down the prestall.
Answer: True. If the disc comes to rest on the playing field proper (the 70 x 40 yard box)
a member of the team becoming offense must put the disc into play within ten seconds after it comes to rest. If the disc landed outside of the playing field proper, but within a reasonable distance to retrieve it, the team becoming offense must put the disc into play within 20 seconds after it comes to rest. After the appropriate amount of time, 10 or 20 seconds, elapses, a defensive player within three meters of the disc may announce disc in, and then initiate and continue the stall count, but only if a defensive player has given audible warnings of ten and five seconds (the pre-stall). If a player is unnecessarily delaying the game,  by standing over the disc, a defensive player may give an audible warning, pre stalling from 3, down to 1, and then begin the stall count.

17. (T/F) You can contest a strip call.
Answer: True. It is a subset of fouls and treated the same way as fouls.

18. (T/F) A PICK cannot be called if you run into your own player. Only a player on the other team.
Answer: False. If a defender is within 10 feet of an offensive player they are guarding, and the offensive player runs them through a player of either team, the defender can call a pick. If the pick allowed for a play to be made that the defender otherwise may have stopped, it goes back and the defender gets to catch up to the relative position and distance of when the pick occurred. If the defender did not have a play, or the disc wasn't thrown, then the defender still gets to catch up to the relative position and distance as when the pick occurred.

19. (T/F) Anyone on the field for the defensive team can prestall.
Answer: True. To prestall, a defender may be anywhere on the field. But to initiative the actual stall afterwards, the player must be within 10 feet of the place at which the disc is to be put into play. 

20. (T/F) If you are on the pulling team, you can catch the disc while it is in the air for a turnover.
Answer: False. The pulling team may not touch the disc before before either the offense does or the disc hits the ground. If the defense does, the offensive may ask for an immediate re-pull.

21. (T/F) You are allowed to have stiff contact with your opponent in the game of Ultimate.
Answer: False. Ultimate is a non contact sport and players should do their best to avoid contact with one another. Incidental contact is allowed, and defined as contact that does not affect continued play. Knocking a player off balance, or preventing them from cutting or playing defense is not incidental contact. Small contact that did not affect continued play, or simultaneously vying for an unoccupied position is incidental. 

22. (T/F) If you drop a disc carrying it in from out of bounds, while the disc is live (not a timeout/foul discussion) it is is a turnover.
Answer: True. If this drop happens during a timeout/foul discussion though (before restarting play again) then it is not a turnover. 

23. (T/F) Each team has two timeouts per half always.
Answer: False. Tournament director decides time outs per half, for that specific tournament, as well as if timeouts are allowed in hard cap or not.  It is typical to have two per half, or one per half and a floater, but teams should check with the specific rules for that event.

24. (T/F) Field dimensions can be changed in tournament play by the tournament director.
Answer: True. The captains clause allows tournament directors to change the field dimensions, game times, and other rules at their discretion to fit the requirements they have for their event.

25. (T/F) If you play with observers, you send a disputed call to an observer to decide, you can overrule an observer’s call.
Answer: False. Once a disputed call has been sent to an observer it is completely the observers call and their call is final. It does not go back to the players again. For observer active calls (in and out of bounds) you can only overrule an observer if it negatively affects your own team. 

26. (T/F) If you play with observers, you can only call over an observer once you have tried to work it out with the opposing player.
Answer: True

27. (T/F) If you accidentally drop a disc while pivoting, it is not a turnover.
Answer: False. It is a turnover.

28. (T/F) If you are playing with someone that is new and does not know the rules well, then you should use this to your advantage, and allow yourself to get away with things they may not call.
Answer: False. Players can call fouls on themselves, and should use opportunities like this to exhibit honest and character, and teach the rule to those individuals in a respectful way.

29. (T/F) Above all else, you are to be a person of integrity and win a game the right way and not by bending the rules.
Answer: True

30. (T/F) It is a stall only when they throw the disc after you say the word “ten” completely?
Answer: False. It is as a stall at the utterance of the "t" in "ten".

31. (T/F) If the thrower throws the disc when it is a Stall 10, and he contests the call, but the disc goes incomplete, the disc comes back to the thrower and the stall count starts at 8.
Answer: False. It is a turnover because of the continuation rule. If the pass had been completed, then it would come back and resume at stall 8.

32. (T/F) You can contest a contact call.
Answer: True. But contesting stops play, to talk it out. The contact call itself does not stop play. 

33. (T/F) The end zone size is now at 25 x 40 yards, and the playing field proper is 70 x 40 yards.
Answer: False. The endzone size is 20 yards deep and 40 yards wide. and the playing field prper is 70 x 40 yards.

34. (T/F) You can tip a pass to yourself in order to evade a defender
Answer: False, intentional tipping, brushing, delaying, to yourself is illegal.

35. (T/F) You can only take up to three steps after catching a disc.
Answer: False. You can take as many steps as it requires for you to stop, depending on the amount of momentum you had going. But you must make your best effort to stop immediately.

36. (T/F) You do not need to set a pivot foot in order to throw.
Answer: True. A player can catch and throw without stopping to set a pivot foot, as long as they have less than three additional ground contacts after making the catch, and do not change direction or speed. If they change direction, speed, or have more than three ground contacts between catching and releasing their throw, it is a travel.

37. (T/F) If a pull is thrown and lands out the back, it should be brought out of the endzone, to the goaline, and straight forward from where it landed.
Answer: False. It should be brought to the brick mark, which varies by event, but is typically twenty yards out of the endzone, and in the middle of the field.

38. (T/F) Coaches may give input on the outcome of a play or call based on what they saw.
Answer: False. Coaches may offer rule clarifications when asked by a player, but are not allowed to give input on the specific play's outcome or determine what should happen on the field. It is the responsibility of the players to use, or receive rules knowledge, and apply them together and work out what happened together. In between points, for learning, the coach may offer his opinion on what took place. 

39. (T/F) The players on the sideline cannot offer their opinion on in/out calls, or any other call/outcome of a play.
Answer: True. Players not on the field should stay out of the play, and let those involved and on the field work it out together. 

40. (T/F) If you catch the disc and the defender immediately knocks it out:
a. It is a turnover
b. It is a strip
Answer: b

41. If the game is to 15, halftime is at:
a. When one of the teams scores 8 points
b. 45 minutes into the game
c. Half of the time into the game (i.e. 80 minute total game, halftime would be at 40 minutes)
d. When the total score adds up to 8 (i.e. 5-3)
​Answer: a

42. If your marker calls “STALL” because they think they got to ten, but you yell “CONTEST”, and the pass is an incomplete pass:
a. The disc goes back to the thrower and the marker starts at stall 8
b. The disc goes back to the spot of the throw and it is a turnover there with the defensive team taking over
c. It is a turnover where the disc landed incomplete
d. None of the above
Answer: c
​ 
43. In a game that is 11-10 when the soft camp horn goes off during the point. The team scores to make it 12-10.
​What happens (it is a game to 15 to win)?
a. It is a game is to 13 since 11 was the highest score with the soft cap horn went off.
b. Game is 2 plus the highest score after this point is over so it is first one to 14.
c. Game goes until a team gets to 15.
d. Game is over at that point. 12-10 the final.
Answer: b

44. What happens if two people cannot resolve an issue?
a. Redo the play
b. Ask someone else on the field with best perspective to decide
c. Go to an observer
d. All of the above
Answer: d

45. If you call a timeout and you have no timeouts remaining:
a. It is a turnover
b. It is a foul and the defense starts the stall count starting at 8
c. Nothing happens, the team just does not get a timeout
d. The opposing team gets it on the disc on the goal line.
Answer: a

46. “Contact” call is:
a. When you are a cutter and the downfield defender is pushing you or having contact with you
b. When you have the disc as a thrower, and are fouled but not throwing
c. When you are catching the disc and your defender interferes
d. When you run your cut and your defender gets in the way
Answer: b

47. Time-outs last:
a. 60 seconds
b. 70 seconds
c. 90 seconds
d. 120 seconds
Answer: b

48. After you go back into position on offense after a time-out and you move before the disc is put into play, it is called a:
a. Stall
b. Foul
c. Violation
d. Contest
Answer: c

49. If you are injured and you stop play:
a. You must leave the field and someone replaces you
b. You can choose to stay on the field but your team is charged a time-out. If you do not have timeouts, it is a turnover. However, if the injury was caused by the other team, then you can stay without penalty. 
c. You can ask the other team if they agree that it is OK for you to stay in the game
d. All of the above
Answer: b

50. If you are chasing your man and you get picked and he catches it and you yell “PICK”:
a. The disc stays where it is with the receiver that caught it
b. The disc always goes back to the thrower because it was involved with the pick
c. It is a turnover
d. The disc goes back to the thrower if you would have had a play on the disc. It stays with the receiver and you get to catch up the relative distance if you did not have a play on the disc.
e. None of the above
Answer: d

51. When you win the toss, you can choose:
a. To receive or pull
b. Defer to the second half
c. Which end zone your team will defend
d. A or B
e. A or C
f. B or C
g. All of the above
Answer: e

52. If a team is late to a game, the Tournament Director can:
a. Penalize the team that does not show up on time with a forfeit
b. 1 point to the other team for every 5 minutes they are late
c. Nothing
Answer: b

53. If a “PICK” is called while the thrower releases the disc into the air and no one catches the disc and it falls to the ground:
a. The disc goes back to the thrower and the play starts again with the person calling pick able to catch up to his man.
b. It is a turnover where the disc landed incomplete
c. If the pass was intended for the person that was had his man picked, then the play happens again with the disc going back to the thrower.
d. None of the above
​Answer: b

54. If you drop a disc in the end zone due to an uncontested foul:
a. You are awarded the point
b. You tap the disc in at the spot of the foul, then bring the disc out to the goal line and your team is on offense from there
c. The redo the play from the original thrower
d. None of the above
Answer: b

55. When “contact” is called:
a. The mark drops the count by two
b. Play stops, and restarts with a hand check after the marker backs up. Stall stays where it was at
c. The stall increases by two, because contact is a defensive call
d. It is treated as a uncontested foul call, against the mark, bringing the stall to zero. But, play could be stopped to contest and discuss if the mark disagrees.
Answer: d

56. If you catch a pass in the end zone but do not realize it and throw another pass in the end zone to your teammate and he drops it:
a. It is still a point
b. It is a turnover
c. You redo it
Answer: a

57. How long do you have once the disc lands, on the playing field proper, as a turnover to pick it up on offense?
a. No time limit
b. 5 seconds
c. 10 seconds
d. 20 seconds
Answer: c

58. In the above question, when can you pre-stall?
a. Once the disc comes to a stop
b. 10 seconds after it lands dead
c. 20 seconds after it lands dead
d. 30 seconds after it lands dead
Answer: a

59. When you are stalling, you stall by saying:
a. “Stalling 1, Stalling 2, Stalling 3 etc.”
b. “Stall 1, Stall 2, Stall 3 etc.”
c. “Stalling 1, 2, 3 etc.”
d. A and B
e. All of the above
Answer: c

60. The score is 8-6. The hard cap horn goes off during the point. The B team scores to make it 8-7.
a. The B team should not have scored. Game should have been over immediately at 8-6.
b. You keep playing until you hear the soft cap horn. Then finish the game after that point.
c. Scores are within one point so you play it out. If A team scores to make it 9-7, game is over. If B team scores to make it 8-8, universe point then.
d. Game is over. 8-7
​Answer: d

61. If you call a travel:
a. It is a turnover
b. Play stops and the disc goes back to the thrower, if a throwing travel, assuming the pass was complete
c. Play stops and the receiver who caught the disc must back up to where their momentum would've reasonably taken them, if a receiving travel
d. Both B and C
Answer: d

62. All of the below are marking violations EXCEPT:
a. Disc space
b. Fast count
c. Double team
d. Vision blocking
e. All of the above are marking violations
Answer: e

63. For the first marking violation after the thrower has gotten the disc:
a. Play stops and the stall count goes to 0
b. Play stops and the stall count is dropped by 1
c. Play does not stop and stall count goes to 0
d. Play does not stop and stall count is dropped by 1
e. Play does not stop and stall count is dropped by 2
Answer: e

64. If an offensive and defensive player catch the disc at the same time:
a. Disc goes to offensive player
b. Disc goes to defensive player
c. Redo the play
d. Best perspective person decides on it (teammate, etc. )
Answer: a

65. If there is debate on whether the pass was caught or hit the ground, who can rule on it?
a. Any offensive players
b. Any defensive players
c. The player(s) with the best perspective
d. A and B
Answer: c

66. The standard field of play is:
a. 75 yards x 50 yards with 25 yard end zones
b. 80 yards x 40 yards with 20 yard end zones
c. 70 yards x 40 yards with 20 yard end zones
d. 100 yards x 50 yards with 25 yard end zones
Answer: c

67. If the disc lands out of bounds on a pull:
a. The receiving team can ask for a re-pull
b. The disc comes into play at the “brick”, or the middle of the field wherever it went out of bounds if it was before it
c. If it goes out of the back of the end zone, it comes up to the front of the end zone
d. A player could chose to take the disc at the sideline nearest where it went out
e. B and D
f. All of the above
Answer: e

68. You can only substitute:
a. Between points
b. Injury timeouts
c. Team timeouts
d. A and B (there is a difference between injury timeouts and team timeouts)
e. A and C
f. B and C
g. All of the above
​Answer: d

69. How much TOTAL time do you have in between pulls?
a. 60 seconds
b. 70 seconds
c. 90 seconds
d. 120 seconds
Answer: c

70. If you are the thrower and you throw the disc and yell “FOUL”:
a. If the disc is caught, you continue to play on
b. If the disc is caught, you still bring the disc back to the spot of the foul
c. If the disc is incomplete, you continue play with it being a turnover
d. If the disc is incomplete, you bring the disc back to the spot of the foul
e. A and D
Answer: e

71. If the throw goes up, there is a contested foul and the stall was originally at 8, then the disc goes back to the thrower and the stall count starts at:
a. 8
b. 6
c. 0
d. None of the above
Answer: b

72. Score is 13-11. B team scores to make it 13-12. Hard cap horn goes off right after they score.
a. Because it went off after the point concluded, it is the same as going off during the following point. Therefore, play another. Then if A team scores to make it 14-12, game is over. If B team scores to make it 13-13 then universe point.
b. Game is over.
c. Game is to 15 so you play it out.
d. None of the above.
Answer: a

73. A player on the opposing team makes a call (foul/in or out/travel/etc) and you disagree. What steps can you take to determine what is correct?
a. Ask the sideline
b. Politely discuss the call with players on either team who had the best perspective
c. Ask your coach what they think happened on the field 
d. Ask your coach to clarify specific rules
e. Ignore the other player and always stick with your gut
f. B and D
g. A, B, C, D are all correct
Answer: f

​74. After a turnover, with the disc landed on the playing field proper, what action must the new offensive player picking up the disc do before beginning to throw?
a. The new offensive player must check the disc with a new defensive player
b. The new offensive player must yell "disc in" upon picking up the disc
c. The new offensive player must yell "disc in" AND ground tap the disc upon picking it up. 
d. None of these. The new offensive player may pick up the disc and throw immediately.
e. The new offensive player must check the disc with a new defensive player, or if no defensive player is near can yell "disc in" and ground tap the disc instead.
Answer: d

75. The other team overthrows their receiver in the end zone. A player on your team retrieves the disc, walks it up to the front of the end zone line, and before the defense has a chance to put a mark she ground taps the disc and then throws the disc to someone cutting down field. The other team calls violation because they didn’t get a chance to check the disc in. Is this a valid call? What should happen in this situation?
a. Yes, valid call, there must be a check.
b. No, No check is required, only a ground tap after walking out of the endzone.
Answer: b

76. A receiver is fouled when trying to catch a disc in the end zone. The defender agrees that she fouled the receiver. What happens?
a. Receiver's disc on the goal line-receiver and defender walk to the end zone line and check the disc in.
b. An uncontested foul in the end zone is now always a goal.
c. It depends whether the receiver had possession of the disc before the foul happened. Strips are scores, fouls are on the goaline.
Answer: c

77. The thrower calls a foul on the marker and stops playing, letting the disc hang by his side. The marker yells "no contest," touches the disc and begins his stall count. The thrower protests, saying he wasn’t ready, but the marker ignores him and the stall count reaches 10. What is the outcome?
a. Turnover. The defender checked the disc in and then stalled the thrower.
b. Thrower's disc, stall count at 1. The thrower never offered the disc for a check, so no check occurred. Uncontested foul brings the count to zero.
c. Thrower's disc, stall count at 6. Offsetting infractions - violation on the thrower for not offering the disc quickly enough and violation on the marker for checking it in before the thrower offered it.
d. Turnover. The thrower waived the requirement of offering the disc by taking too long, and the defender checked it in and stalled the thrower.
Answer: b

78. The player catches the disc while airborne and, upon landing, loses possession, bobbling the disc to himself to regain possession. While bobbling, the player takes five steps, both speeding up and changing direction. Upon regaining possession (with both feet on the ground), the player takes two more steps in the same line at the same speed and makes a throw while dragging his back foot, and then continues to run. How many travels, if any, has this player committed?
a. One travel, dragging his back foot
b. Two travels, dragging his back foot, and when he changed speed and direction running
c. Three travels, dragging foot, changing speed and direction, and when losing possession and bobbling
d. Two travels, dragging back foot, and when the player took two additional steps after catching
e. Zero travels
Answer:  a

79. Earlier in his possession, the thrower called "disc space" on the marker (and the marker responded appropriately). Now, the marker again establishes a position violating the disc space. Which of the following describes a legal call by the thrower and an appropriate response by the marker?
a. The thrower calls "disc space" and the marker should stop counting, back up and resume counting at the count reached, minus one.
b. The thrower calls "violation," play stops, and then play resumes with the stall count at 1.
c. The thrower calls "foul," play stops, and then play resumes with the stall count at 1.
d. A and B.
Answer: b

80. A pick is called at the front of the stack, but the thrower does not hear/acknowledge the call and completes a fast-flying huck to the receiver at the back of the stack, whose defender was very close, but stopped upon hearing the pick call. Where does the disc go?
a. The disc comes back; the call affected the play because the defender stopped
b. The play stands; the picked player had no play on the disc. The picked player can catch up and disc checked in.
c. The disc comes back; play stopped when the call was made
Answer: b

81. A huck goes up and a receiver and her defender are jockeying for position while waiting for the disc to arrive. When the disc arrives, the receiver uses one arm to push the defender out of the way, while jumping up and catching the disc with the other arm. The defender calls a foul, and the receiver does not contest the foul. What happens?
a. Play stops, but the disc remains with the receiver since she caught the disc.
b. It's a turnover, play stops and the disc is awarded to the fouled defender.
c. Play stops, the disc goes back to the thrower.
d. It’s a turnover, play stops, and the fouled defender may take possession or place the disc in the ground and check it into play.
Answer: b

82. A marker who is stalling the thrower begins to near the end of the stall count and, in excitement, speeds up his stall count and reaches "ten" while the disc is still in the thrower's hands, and calls "stall". The thrower contests, saying that the count was fast. The marker says: "well, you still have the disc in your hand, so it's definitely been 10 seconds now, so it's a stall!" What happens?
a. 10 seconds have elapsed and the thrower has not thrown the disc, so it's a stall. Turnover, defender checks the disc in at the spot of the foul.
b. 10 seconds have elapsed and the thrower has not thrown the disc, so it's a stall. Turnover, play continues immediately without a check.
c. Play stopped when the stall was called, so the time that has elapsed since the stoppage of play is irrelevant. Thrower retains possession of the disc and play restarts with a check at "stalling 8".
d. Play stopped when the stall was called, so the time that has elapsed since the stoppage of play is irrelevant. Thrower retains possession of the disc and play restarts with a check at "stalling 9".
Answer: c

83. A thrower puts up a floaty, floaty huck and his receiver and the defender are chasing it down. The receiver makes an excellent read and places himself in perfect position to catch the floating pass. Three more defenders collect under the floating disc, pushing each other and collectively pushing the receiver out of position. He calls a foul. They collectively contest, saying "It was a hospital pass, you can't call that." Which of the following is true?
a. The defenders are wrong, the disc returns to the thrower, and the players should resume their positions at the time of the throw.
b. The defenders are wrong, the disc returns to the thrower, and the players should resume their positions at the time of the call.
c. The defenders are right, since the contact was incidental. Turnover.
d. The defenders are right, the pass was terrible and that's why it wasn't caught. Turnover.
Answer: a

84. A receiver runs after a huck in a perfectly straight line (assume this straight line continues), with her defender trailing behind. The defender accelerates and begins to catch up. As the trailing defender closes to only a half step behind the receiver, their legs become tangled and they both fall down. The receiver calls a foul. Which describes appropriate action and reasoning by the defender? Where does the disc go?
a. She should contest because "some amount of incidental contact before, during, or immediately after the [receiving] attempt often is unavoidable and is not a foul." Disc back to thrower.
b. She should not contest because she initiated the contact which caused their legs to tangle. Disc to receiver at the spot of the foul.
c. She should contest because the contact caused her to fall, too, and since they both fell, continued play was not affected. Disc back to thrower.
d. She should contest because it is not clear that the receiver would have come down with it, so the fair outcome is to send it back. Disc back to thrower.
e. She should not contest because she initiated the contact which caused their legs to tangle. Disc to receiver who takes possession of the disc where it lies.
Answer: b